EYL. SOMALIA.
They're here.
Hurry. Muse!
Come quickly!
Quickly!
What the hell are you doing?
Why aren't you out on the water?
You know what you're supposed to do.
You should be out there earning money.
But we caught a ship last week.
That was last week!
The boss wants money today!
Bring Garaad another ship soon...
or you will answer for it.
Everybody. get back to work now!
Stay out of my way today.
Hufan!
I'm going to get us something big!
Those who want to make money. come.
Muse. take me with you.
Does your sister know you're here?
She's selling khat up there.
This is her best stuff.
When we get a big ship. you will be well paid.
You want to work?
Do you know how to steer a boat?
Go! Go!
I'm ready.
- What do you have for me?
- Money.
- When are you gonna give it to me?
- As soon as we're paid.
Spread out!
Let my man choose his crew.
Next time bring me something if you want to work.
Come on. Bilal.
Hey. skinny...
I can steer your boat.
If you choose me. you won't regret it.
Okay. Elmi.
I need somebody strong.
Somebody like this?
I want him.
Get out of my way.
Why did he pick him?
He's from another village!
Move!
Faster. move faster!
See if you can get more power.
Okay.
You! You!
Get over here!
Come help us!
Their main route is packed with ships...
...but we can't attack a herd.
There is one ship alone.
She's really big!  Get ready!
You worry about yourself Sendirim. you skinny rat!
Brothers. we're going to make a lot of money!
Slow down. the waves are too big!
Did you hear that?  Did you hear that?
We've got to get out of here!
Turn back. turn back!
What are you doing?
Where are you going?
Come on! Keep going!
Faster. faster!
Hurry. hurry!  Go!
We're pushing this engine too hard!
Faster. faster!
What happened?
Get back after them!
Restart the engine! Now!
After them! Go!
You cannot push the engine!
- Come on!  Let's go!
- It's dead!
"Hi honey...
working hard. new crew to get in shape."
"I'll call when we get to port."
"Love you."
"Rich"
The ocean was rough... Really rough.
Huffan. I'm telling you...
Out boat couldn't take it...
Nothing was working for us.
Hurry up.
We need a bigger one for that ship.
I want this welded by the morning...
By tomorrow. got it?
Elmi.
When will that engine be ready?
We've gotta fix it.
This thing is old and weak.
It's a piece of shit.
Shut up and fix it!
for your crew of women.
Why don't you give me your engine?
Shut up. skinny!
You talk too much!
I may be skinny. but I'm not a coward.
What did you say?
Say it again!
You think you're somebody?
The coward is the first one in the grave.
We are the Somali coast guard.
This is a routine check.
Stop your ship now!
We are coming aboard.
We're here to help you.
Stop now!
Alabama!  This is your final warning!
Stop the ship!
They're not stopping!
Show them who we are. Muse!
Shoot at them!
Turn!
It's clear over there!
Untie the ladder!
Shoot him!
Let's go. Let's go!
Hurry up. Bilal!
Move your ass. kid!
Stop him!
Higher!  Get it higher!
Hook it on!
Get out of my way!
Don't move! Don't move!
Get away!  Get over there!
Alright.
From now on this one is called Irish. okay?
Hey. calm down!  Calm down.
Watch this ugly one.
What are you doing?
I'm going to fix it.
Do you know how?
Hold the gun on him.
I've got him. don't worry.
Don't mess with anything you don't know.
Come on. man!
What are you doing?
Just take care of that guy.
Stop the games.
Get that one and put him against the wall.
Wait.
Take his radio.
Take his flashlight.
I heard something.
Check the other side.
There's no one here.
Please. let's go back.
I know they were there.
Look man. get us out of here!
Hey. take him upstairs.
I can't move!
Take him upstairs and tell Najee to come!
What happened to you?
They put glass down for me...  They got me.
Where is Muse?
In the engine room.
He wants Najee to come down.
Hey! Get me out of here!
Listen to what these guys have to say.
What happened?
They cut my hand. bad.
We'll straighten everything out later.
Just get me out of here.
Give Irish the radio.
I'll give it to him now.
Thirty thousand is nothing...
I want millions.
Hey. Bilal. check it out!
If anyone moves. kill them!
Kill them!
What's going on. Skinnny?
Do what they say and get me out of here!
Be strong. man.
Watch him!
Bilal. point your gun at him!
Point your gun!
Go!
Irish... It's only us now.
Hufan. do you read me?
Hufan. can you hear me?
Where's your boss?  He should be with us by now.
Don't worry.  He's coming.
Stupid hand.
Stop whining! You sound like a little girl!
You wanted to come with us.  You asked for this.
I didn't think this would happen!
I could lose my foot!
You have to be ready for anyything...
This game isn't for the weak.
What is it?
It's a gift.
Give me some khat.
Why? You've had more than your share.
Says who? Give me some more!
Shut up!
Both of you shut up!
Just take it!
This is it?
That's all I have.
Where is the rest?
I don't have any.
It's all gone.
You are useless.  I should have taken it from you.
What are you doing?
He's got a knife!
Go back... Get back there!
Drive this thing right!
Calm down. we're on the ocean.
I should throw you off this boat right now!
You need to sit down and relax.
That's enough.
Take it away.
From now on this water is only for us!
Stop being such an asshole.
You've got to control him.
Just drive and shut up.
Hufan. can you hear me?
What's wrong with you?
Don't talk to me.
Hufan. can you hear me?
We should be heading northwest...
We've got to get to Garaad's port.
We are. but there's a lot of wind.
Just go!
Okay. then let me do it!
Muse? Are you there?
Are you there?
Hufan... where are you?
I'm having trouble with the engine.
Head home.
I'll be there as soon as I can.
Hey. we're alone out here...
... And we need you to pick us up.
We've got to get out of this lifeboat.
Shut up and listen to me!
You screwed up getting the ship...
... so Garaad says bring back that Captain...
... or don't come back at all.
I need air.
When are we going to be home?
I can't feel my foot anymore.
It's like hell in here.
You think you have any power here?
Let him go!
I should shoot you and be done!
Take your gun off him!
I'm the captain! Who do you think you are?
You're taking his side?
You let the American do whatever he wants!
I'm losing control!
It's the Americans!
Do something to secure the door!
Calm down. brother...
We're here for the Captain. not for you.
They have a spy with them!
Hey... you. Who are you?
My name is Nemo...
I work with the U.S. Navy.
We just want to talk.
We speak English.
I want ten million dollars.
It's not that easy. but we'll work on it.
In the meantime. what if I bring you some food and water?
They're coming...
Bilal. watch him.
Watch him closely.
Open your door! We are here with your supplies.
Calm down. brother. We're just here to help you.
Listen. we need to see our guy.
We've got supplies... food. water for you...
But we need to see our captain.
They want to see him. Bring him out.
Bring him! Bring him!
Bring ​​him back!
Shut up and do not move!
Calm down. we just want to talk.
We've got your supplies here... food. water.
- Where's the money?
- Give me time.
Listen. you're hurt.
We've got doctors on board.
Let us take care of you.
Hurry up!
They're treating us like children!
Ten million dollars.
OK?
It is not easy. give us time.
We've got to talk about this.
Hurry up. I said!
Are you crazy? What are you doing?
You'll get us all killed!
Do you have to talk all day?!
You're crazy! What do you think you're doing?
What have you done?!
Move!
You have to be strong to get what you want!
Hey. this situation has gotten bad.
There are two more ships. one on either side.
That one is huge!
Bilal. get the ropes!
I want him tied up.
The other ropes...
He got out!
Turn the boat around!
Bilal. you idiot!
Turn it!  Faster. faster!
Move. or we'll leave you!
Find him! Don't kill him!
Don't shoot!
Stop! What are you doing?!
He's getting away!
Don't kill him!
Better to kill him than let him escape!
There he is!
I'm ordering you! Don't kill him!
Where is he?
There he is!
He's here!
Get over here! Now!
Why did you do it?
Speak! Speak!
Are you crazy?
Stop him!
That's enough!
Don't kill him!
If you kill him. we all die!
What do you want me to do with him?
What is he doing?!
It's a helicopter.
Get to the other side!
Turn the boat!
Hurry!
Go!
They think you are playing games.
Do something!
Do you want to go to an American prison?
Is that what you want?
I know how to handle America.
Give me the pistol!
They think I'm playing games. huh?
They have no respect for us. You want to play games?
Give me the radio!
The helicopter is coming back.
America. you must stop this now!
I'm going to kill this Irish.
I will kill him!
You! Don't stand there!
Talk! Talk!
They know us!
It's a lie.
It's a trap. It's a trap.
This is definitely a trap.
You have to be strong.
Don't let anyone in.
Whatever happens. don't stop.
It's my job.
What's going on?!
I can't see.
Give me the radio!
Too much light.
We no see.
Keep it steady... Keep it steady!
It's getting rough!
Keep it straight!
Slow down!
What kind of games are they playing?
I can't hold it straight!
Be a man. Just shut up and steer!
Can you hear me? How much longer?
Do you hear me?
I speak to Muse.
I want to speak with him.
What are you writing?
Stop him!
Kill him!
Bilal. stop him!
Bring the rope.
Tie him!
What are you doing?!
Shut up!
Get a blindfold!
Blindfold him!
Don't kill him!
The elders are coming! we will get our money.
You are both idiots.
No one is coming!
That's it... We will all die if you kill him.
Everything they told you was a lie.
They will kill us all...
and he is behind everything!